Title: Neural Machine Translation by Jointly Learning to Align and Translate

Authors: Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, Yoshua Bengio

Published in: ICLR 2015

Keywords: N/A

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0473

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

The translation system is used to automatically translate a source sentence to a target translation. The traditional 
phrase-based translation system (Moses) consists of several sub-components. Each component has been tuned separately 
and then used together to read a sentence and output a correct translation. On the other hand, the recent neural machine 
translation system only trains a single neural network consisting of a set of encoder-decoder where the encoder encodes 
a source sentence to a fixed-length vector and the decoder outputs a target translation from that conceded vector. The 
system is trained jointly for each language pair. But the fixed-length vector is the bottleneck for translation performances.
Therefore, a further improvement is expected, and authors in this paper extend the neural machine translation to automatically
search the relevant parts of the source sentence during predicting the target word.

[2] Solution:

The proposed solution consists of a bidirectional RNN (BiRNN) as an encoder and a decoder. In Encoder, the BiRNN consists 
of both forward and backward RNNs, and therefore the annotation of each word is formulated by concatenating both forward and 
backward states.  The annotation hi holds the information of entire input sequences but puts a strong focus on the surrounding
of i-th word. This sequence of annotations is used by the decoder to compute the context vectors. In Decoder, the weight of 
each annotation is computed with an alignment model (jointly trained with the system to get how well the j-th inputs match 
with i-th output). After that, the context vector is computed as the weighted sum of annotations, and the context vector is 
distinct for each target word. Finally, the model defines an conditional probability of yi with the hidden state si of RNN 
at the time i, which is conditioned on a distinct context vector ci for each target word yi.

[3] Evaluation:

The authors evaluated the proposed approach on the task of English-to-French translation and use the corresponding WMT’14 
dataset. They train two kinds of models: 1) RNNencdec (encoder-decoder without the proposed search approach), 2) RNNsearch 
(encoder-decoder with the proposed search approach). Also authors train model with the sentences of length up to 30 words 
and 50 words, separately.  Additionally, authors also performed evaluation with sentences having no unknown words and 
sentences having any words, separately.  The results show that the proposed RNNsearch outperforms the traditional 
RNNencdec, and also comparable to the phrase-based translation system (Moses) for sentences having known words only. 
Because of the fixed-length context vector, the RNNencdec underperforms with long sentences (even RNNsearch-30 
outperforms RNNencdec-50) while RNNsearch shows robustness to the length of sentences. 
