Title: Assessing the Generalizability of code2vec Token Embeddings

Authors: Hong Jin Kang, Tegawende F. Bissyande, David Lo

Published in: ASE 2019

Keywords: Code Embeddings, Distributed Representations, Big Code

Link: https://2019.ase-conferences.org/details/ase-2019-papers/75/Assessing-the-Generalizability-of-code2vec-Token-Embeddings

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

Many NLP tasks (i.e. semantic analysis, syntactic parsing) are using the word embedding model and have been shown that
the word embeddings are generalizable to different tasks. Therefore, many researchers have used the embedding of source
code for software engineering tasks (i.e. code2vec model to predict the method name given method body). However, the 
embedding of source code only shows its usefulness in the example task and fails to demonstrate its generalizability. In 
this paper, the authors point out this important concern of the generalizability of word embedding in source code. They 
experiment with some downstream tasks using word embedding of source code to assess the generalizability of token embedding. 
Authors aim to investigate whether the embeddings of source code tokens can be useful for other tasks except for the task in 
which it's already trained.

[2] Solution:

To assess the generalizability of token embedding, authors target the recent code2vec embedding which is showed its success 
in predicting method name from method body. The authors identify three downstream tasks: (1) code comment generation, (2) code
authorship identification, and (3) code clone detection. For each task, authors choose one of the recent techniques (i.e. 
DeepCom by Hu et al. for code comment generation, TF-IDF by Abuhamad et al. for code authorship identification, and SourcererCC
by Sajnani et al. for code clone detection)  having the dataset, setting of model and evaluation metrics available to comparison.
After that, the authors adopt those techniques to use the code2vec token embedding of source code. Authors also used an NLP word 
embedding (GloVe) as the baseline. For each task, they use the same dataset. Settings and evaluation metrics to compare the 
state-of-the-art with code2vec and GloVe.

[3] Evaluation:

The result shows that the code embedding doesn’t improve the state-of-the-art techniques. The evaluation reveals several 
insights. First, in code comment generation and code authorship identification, the use of embedding degrades the performance.
In code clone detection, the use of embedding increased the Recall and F1 by a small margin but decreased the Precision by a 
large margin. Second, the simpler approach like TF-IDF and SourcererCC run faster and outperform the complex code embedding 
technique. Finally, it has been shown that the code embedding is not generalizable as it fails to improve the new tasks.
