Title: Dynamic Slicing for Deep Neural Networks

Authors: Ziqi Zhang, Yuanchun Li, Yao Guo, Xiangqun Chen, Yunxin Liu

Published in: ESEC/FSE 2020

Keywords/CCS: Neural networks, Dynamic analysis

Link: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.13747.pdf

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

Program slicing has been widely applied in a variety of software engineering tasks, i.e. debugging, testing, verification, etc. 
However, existing program slicing techniques only deal with traditional programs that contain instructions and variables, and 
overlook neural networks that include neurons and synapses. Therefore, the authors propose NNSlicer for slicing deep neural 
networks based on data flow analysis.  The authors evaluated NNSlicer on CIFAR-10 dataset (image size 32×32, 10 output classes) 
with CNN models (LeNet, ResNet10, and ResNet18). The result shows that the usefulness and effectiveness of NNSlicer with three 
applications (adversarial detection, model pruning, and model protection)  significantly outperforms other baselines that do not
rely on data flow analysis.

[2] Solution:

A program slice is a subset of the whole program that may be relevant to specific output but much smaller in size than the whole
program, thus much easier to analyze. Similarly, NNSlicer computes a subset of neurons and synapses that may significantly affect
the values of certain interested neurons. The working process of  NNSlicer consist of three phases: a) profiling phase, b) forward
analysis phase, and c) backward analysis phase. In the profiling phase, the average neuron activation value over the whole training
dataset is calculated for each neuron. In the forward analysis phase, the relative activation value of each neuron is calculated. 
In the backward analysis phase, recursively compute the contributions of preceding neurons and synapses from back to front, and slice
the network by removing neurons/synapses with zero contribution.

[3] Evaluation:

The authors demonstrate the usefulness and effectiveness of NNSlicer on three applications: adversarial input detection, network 
simplification and pruning, and selective model protection. For adversarial input detection, the reasoning is that the normal image 
and the adversarial one are indistinguishable for a human, but slices are different. Therefore, given a new input, if its slice is 
distinctly different from the normal slices, it is very likely an adversarial input. For network simplification and pruning, the 
reasoning is that the computation of executing the model may be reduced with redundant weights trimmed off. Therefore, given a set 
of targeted classes, NNSlicer prune trivial synapses of a large model and generate a smaller model with higher model accuracy. 
For selective model protection, the reasoning is that NNSlicer can differentiate the important and non-important part of networks. 
Therefore, NNSlicer can protects a limited ratio of synapses that is important from attacker. In all applications, NNSlicer significantly 
outperforms other baselines that do not rely on data flow analysis.

