Title: Probing Model Signal-Awareness via Prediction-Preserving Input Minimization

Authors: Sahil Suneja, Yunhui Zheng, Yufan Zhuang, Jim Laredo, Alessandro Morari

Published in: ESEC/FSE 2021

Keywords: machine learning, model signal-awareness, signal-aware recall

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.14934

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

Summary:

In recent years, new models are being proposed that show significant improvement over state-of-the-art models of source code. It may be the case that the
model is actually learning noise, not the relevant features from the dataset for making correct predictions. To verify the quality of source code models,
this work presents a novel approach to capture correct task-specific signals from a model’s prediction. This approach uses an input minimization technique
(Delta Debugging [Zeller et al. 2002]) to reduce a vulnerable program and iteratively keeps reducing the vulnerable program as long as the model maintains
the same vulnerability prediction. The approach first reduces the original input program into a minimal code snippet without changing the model’s prediction
and then verify whether the minimal snippet has the same vulnerability condition as the original program. If the corresponding vulnerability from the original
program is present in the minimal snippet, it signals that the model is learning features relevant to the vulnerabilities (learning correct signal).
Otherwise, the model is capturing noise or features not relevant to vulnerabilities (learning incorrect signal). The authors evaluate their approach with
different models and datasets for vulnerability detection in source code. The results show that models of source code often learn noise or irrelevant
features for achieving high prediction performance.

- Task: They present an approach to capture real vulnerability signals from a model's prediction. This approach uses an input minimization technique (Delta Debugging [Zeller et al. 2002]) and iteratively keeps reducing each vulnerable program as long as the model maintains the same vulnerability prediction.
- Importance: This work will suggest whether a model captures noises or real vulnerable signals.
- Contributions: This work requires no knowledge about the target model and defines a new metric called signal-aware recall to measure how well a model captures task-specific signals.
- Strengths: This work can measure how signal-aware a model is and how much impact it can have on its performance.
- Weakness: This work only evaluates the signal-awareness of vulnerability detection models and does not explain how to integrate for other types of models.

