Title: Deep Nets Don't Learn via Memorization 

Authors: David Krueger et al.

Published in: ICLR 2017 (Workshop Track)

Keywords: N/A

Link: https://openreview.net/forum?id=rJv6ZgHYg

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

The authors study the memorization in training. They argued that DNNs do not memorize real data, instead, models use 
simple hypnosis to fit real data.  To support their views, they demonstrated the qualitative differences in DNNs training 
for both real data and noisy data, separately. The result supports that more capacity is needed to fit noisy data, time 
to converge is high for noisy data, and the sharpness of the loss function at convergence increases with the noise ratio.

[2] Solution:

Authors created noisy datasets and conducted several experiments in terms of capacity, time-to-converge, sharpness, and 
regularization. First, they checked the capacity needed to achieve maximal validation performance given different amounts 
of noise in the dataset. Second, they changed the capacity and the size of the dataset and checked how many epochs are 
needed for 100% training accuracy. Third, they investigated the norm of the Hessian’s largest eigenvalue as the 
sharpness/flatness of learned function around the local minima given different amounts of noise in the dataset. 
Forth, they checked the ability of various regularization techniques to degrade training performance on random labels 
without degrading the performance on real data.

[3] Evaluation:

The authors created noisy datasets separately by replacing labels randomly and replacing inputs with Gaussian distribution.
They trained 2-layer ReLU-MLPs on the MNIST dataset for 100 epochs using SGD with a learning rate of 0.01. They observed 
the following for corresponding experiments: 1) More the examples are replaced with noise, more the capacity is needed for 
maximal validation performance. This indicated that the model can learn real data with fewer parameters.  2) Reducing the 
capacity or increasing the dataset may increase the training time for both real and noisy data, but the effect is more 
sensitive to noisy data. 3) Fitting noise crates more complex scenarios as the sharpness around the local minima of the 
learned function increase with the increase of noisy data. 4) Here they trained a small Alexnet-style CNN on CIFAR-10,
and compared various regularization techniques: dropout, input dropout, Gaussian noise, weight decay. The dropout is 
superior among others to hinder the memorization without reducing the performance on real data.

