Title: Understanding deep learning requires rethinking generalization

Authors: Chiyuan Zhang, Samy Bengio, Moritz Hardt, Benjamin Recht, Oriol Vinyals

Published in: ICLR 2017

Keywords: N/A

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.03530

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

DNNs model having massive size may exhibit small generalization error -  the difference between training error and test 
error. On the other hand, the state-of-the-art CNN models can fit unstructured random noisy data.  The traditional 
approaches (such as VC-dimension, Rademacher, or uniform stability) failed to explain why large DNNs generalize well. 
Authors conducted several experiments to answer the question - what distinguishes neural networks that generalize well 
and that don’t. The experiments support that the effective capacity of the model is sufficient for memorizing the entire 
dataset, optimization on random data is also easy, and randomized data is a kind of data transformation that keeps the 
learning almost unchanged. Authors also described a theoretical construction showing that simple depth two neural networks 
already have perfect finite sample expressivity as soon as the number of parameters exceeds the number of data points.

[2] Solution:

Authors take a candidate model and train it separately on true data and randomly replaced label data. For randomly replaced
label data, there is no connection between input and output, therefore, the intuition is that the training may not converge
or slow down extremely. Authors experimented with different levels of randomization (true labels, partial labels [0-1], 
random labels, shuffled pixels, random pixels, gaussian pixels) to get wider insights. Later they showed the difference of 
their approach with traditional approaches such as   Finally, they investigated the effect of regularizations, both explicit
(data aug, weight decay, dropout) and implicit (early stopping, batch normalization). Authors also described a theoretical 
construction showing that simple depth two neural networks already have perfect finite sample expressivity as soon as the 
number of parameters exceeds the number of data points.

[3] Evaluation:

The authors run the Inception V3 model on the CIFAR10 dataset, and AlexNet and MLPs model on the ImageNet dataset. They 
trained different randomized data and found that SGD with unchanged hyper-parameters can fit the random data. Initially, 
training loss is high for all data settings but after a few thousand steps models start to fit the data perfectly and 
converge to zero loss on the training set. However, the loss is sensitive to the degree of randomization. Another 
observation is that the converge time increases with increasing the level of noise. Note that the test errors are the 
same as generalization error as the training errors are zero. Their experiments show that the generalization error 
increases with increasing the random level. Finally, the experiment on both explicit and implicit regularizers suggested 
that - for real data, the regularization may improve the generalization performance, however, the model also performs 
comparatively the same without regularization, and for noisy data, the generalization error is higher whether with or 
without regularization.
