Idea #1: Transitions

I have used specific words and phrases as transitions in my writing to show relationships between sentences and paragraphs,
and connect with different parts of the paper. For example, ​​in the abstract, I used “In recent” to indicate the state-of-the-art
approaches, then used “However” to point out the problem of those approaches, and then used “In this paper” to highlight our
approach with a summary of results. Similarly, in the related work, I used “also” to discuss more related works, then
used “however” to specify the problems of those works, and then used “In this work” to contrast our work with previous works.
Later, in the workflow, I used “given, using, then, final” terms to clearly connect and describe each step of our approach.
Moreover, in the results, I used “Following, From, Furthermore, Compared to” terms to refer to tables, figures, and main findings.
Apart from that, I used many directional (i.e. below, follow), generalize (i.e. in order to, as a result), summarize
(i.e. around, average, summary), time (i.e. next, later, during), and some other types of transitions in different parts of the paper.



Idea #2: Conciseness

Concision: I checked each paragraph to make it concise but with enough details. For example, initially, I had some redundant statements
in the introduction, design, and result section about the goal of the paper, the approach, and the findings. I have removed unnecessary
explanations, redundant phrases, and nearly duplicate statements from those sections. I also made the format of the references section consistent.

Precision: I tried to precisely present each section. For example, I modified the first paragraph of the introduction to directly describe
the problem. I also used specific keywords like ‘important’ and ‘interest’ to clearly state why the work is interesting and important in the
second paragraph of the introduction. I also listed each contribution and conducted experiments for them in the result section and described
the key findings by showing figures and tables. Moreover, I mentioned the challenges and limitations of our work, and future plans.

Revision: I revised the writing every time I updated some parts of the paper. For example, when I updated the figures or tables with new data,
I updated the corresponding text in the result section, and also checked the abstract, introduction, and conclusion to refer to the updated results.



Idea #3: Editing

I have proofread my manuscripts several times. I started reading from the beginning and continued checking each section. I mainly read out slowly
sentence-by-sentence and then edited if I found any inconsistency, grammatical issue, or spelling mistake. Moreover, I downloaded the pdf from overleaf
and expanded it on the monitor screen for reading. I also checked whether the text and color in figures and tables are clearly readable. Furthermore,
I used Grammarly for checking spelling and grammatical issues. Finally, I printed the paper for a final check.

