Exercise 1: Know your audience

What would say:
A high school student thinking about coming to UH: UH is one of the top-ranked universities of Texas and has been recognized
as a Tier 1 public university for its high-quality research activity. You will get an outstanding education and research
opportunities for a bright future. An alumni thinking about donating to COSC: COSC department has recently started two new
research labs where students need powerful computing servers to start working on their research projects. It would be great
if you can donate some Laptops and GPUs for these research labs. A new graduate student in COSC: Professor X will offer the
Research Methods course next semester. If you take this course, it will help you to learn how research is done and how
to improve research productivity.

How would that change based on audience:
I’m focusing on high-quality education and research activities to convince the high school student for joining UH.
However, I’m highlighting the resource limitations of new research labs to encourage the alumni for some donations.
And finally,  recommending a course that I found very helpful for research to a new graduate student.



Exercise 2: Name your Audience & Purpose

Purpose of the research:
In recent years, deep neural models are excessively being developed for various code intelligence tasks in the software
engineering field, such as detecting vulnerability in source code. While the performance of these models continues to improve,
our understanding of what relevant features they learn for making predictions is largely unknown. The lack of transparency
would hinder the trustworthiness to correct classification given by these models for safety-critical application. Therefore,
in our research, we aim to understand how these code intelligence models perform by identifying their limitations,
interpreting their predictions, and improving the transparency of learning.

Identify the audience:
The software engineering researchers who are working with code intelligence systems are our main audience. Several types
of research have been done on learning how to represent source code as embedding, so researchers already have good knowledge
on representation learning and developing models for source code. However, the researchers need to know that these models often
learn noise or irrelevant features, and are biased to few tokens for achieving high prediction performance. The researchers
still have limited knowledge on explaining the prediction of the black-box source code model, and are actively working on this
area for finding methods for transparent learning.



Exercise 3: How will you Develop?

In my research paper, I mainly have to discuss the introduction, related works, methodology, result, and conclusion section. In
those different areas, I might have to use different types of paragraphs. For example, in related works, I will discuss what has
been done in the literature and how those related to my work. I will share the things we have in common and will contrast my work
with state-of-the-art works. That means I will follow the "Development by comparison and contrast" type paragraph in the related
works. On the other hand, in the methodology section, I will describe my design with enough details so that the reader can understand
and reproduce my work. It does not need to be in chronological order as the main story is more important than the order of works.
I will also use specific examples or illustrations to express my design more clearly. Therefore, in the methodology section, I will
largely follow the "Development by detail" type paragraph. Similarly, in other sections, I might have to use different types of paragraphs.
In summary, I will use a combination of different type paragraphs in different areas of my research paper, that is actually
the "Development by combination" type paragraph.

