
Title: Discrete Adversarial Attacks and Submodular Optimization with Applications to Text Classification

Authors: Qi Lei, Lingfei Wu, Pin-Yu Chen, Alexandros G. Dimakis, Inderjit S. Dhillon, Michael Witbrock

Published in: CoRR 2018

Keywords: N/A

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.00151

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

The adversarial attack makes a simple modification in an input that changes the output of a classifier. The adversarial
attack has played a significant role in continuous fields such as images and audio samples, but tricky for discrete fields
like text or code. The gradient-based adversarial attacks can’t be applied directly to discrete input, even the variations
to support discrete structure result in poor accuracy. Also, the recent heuristic attacks on NLP classifier by greedy
methods are slow and unknown when to achieve the best accuracy. On the other hand, the semantic preserving adversarial is
challenging to discrete input like text as it requires too many changes. Therefore, the authors in this paper have studied
the adversarial attack with discrete input to resolve these limitations. They also show how to use the gradient of the
attacked classifier to guide the greedy search. The experimental results on state-fo-the-art text classification tasks 
over baselines show that the approach is significant in terms of ability and efficiency. 

[2] Solution:

Authors propose a framework to generate adversarial examples for discrete inputs such as text. The target is to modify 
the original sentence and create a new sentence by preserving the semantic meaning and syntactic properties. Authors 
applied the transformation on the original sentence to generate a new equivalent sentence. The transformation has been 
done by replacing a word with one of its possible replacements. Therefore, the key challenges are: (1) How to select the
suitable candidate replacements and (2) How to develop an efficient transformation within the candidate set. For 
suitable candidate replacements, authors define the joint sentence and word paraphrasing attack with following steps: 
(1) Paraphrasing Corpus: Generating an initial set of word and sentences replacements with Paragram-SL999 and 
Para-nmt-50m, respectively. (2) Semantic Similarity: Measuring semantic dissimilarity with WMD. (3) Syntactic Similarity:
Ensuring the generated sentence is fluent and natural with a language model. For efficient transformation, authors present
a gradient-guided greedy word paraphrasing algorithm that selects the best paraphrase combinations within the candidate set.

[3] Evaluation:

Authors formulate the attacks with discrete input on a set function as an optimization task. They mainly focus on attacking
the state-of-the-art models: WCNN and LSTM. The experiments have been applied to three different text classification: 
fake-news detection, spam filtering, and sentiment analysis. The results show that the joint sentence and word level
paraphrasing is more effective than the traditional word replacements to generate adversarial examples, and significantly
drops the accuracy of the state-of-the-art models for those adversarial examples. Besides, authors also measure the success
rate over consumption time and conclude that the gradient-guided greedy algorithm is more optimized than the gradient 
method and objective-guided greedy method. Authors also validate their evaluation by comparing with the human evaluation
which achieves similar performance. A separate study of adversarial training shows that the models improve after training
with adversarial examples.

