
Title: DeepRoad: GAN-Based Metamorphic Testing and Input Validation Framework for Autonomous Driving Systems

Authors: Mengshi Zhang, Yuqun Zhang, Lingming Zhang, Cong Liu, Sarfraz Khurshid.

Published in: ASE 2018

Keywords: N/A

Link: https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3238187

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

DNNs system can find exceptional case in autonomous driving system. Many testing techniques have been proposed to generate
transformed test images from original images. But most of those suffer from test case diversity and a mismatch between
training set and  domain set could degrade the system accuracy as invalid images highly affect the system’s prediction.
Therefore, invalid validation is important  to test the consistency of system. In this paper, authors propose DeepRoad, 
an unsupervised DNN based framework, to validate the inputs for improving the robustness of system.

[2] Solution:

The DeepRoad contains main two module: (a) Metamorphic testing module, (b) Input validation module. The metamorphic testing
module uses UNIT, the GAN-based techniques, to generate test inputs with various extreme weather conditions (i.e. heavy rain,
hard snow, etc.) from YouTube videos. The UNIT projects two domains of image in same latent and train the model to transform
dataset. This module helps the DeepRoad to test the system accuracy under various synthetic test inputs. On the other hand,
the input validation module uses the pre-trained VGGNet for feature extraction and then apply PCA to reduce the dimension.
This module helps the DeepRoad to test the system robustness by comparing the average distance between training inputs and
domain inputs within a threshold.

[3] Evaluation:

Authors evaluate the DeepRoad on three popular DNN based autonomous driving systems of Udacity self-driving car. Authors use
the real-world dataset of Udacity and Youtube (i.e. larger driving videos/images under various lightning, road conditions,
heavy snow, hard rain, etc.). The results show that DeepRoad could find erroneous inconsistent behaviors with synthetic scenes
and could validate inputs (i.e. detect outliers) to improve the robustness of system.

