Title: Understanding Importance of Verbs in Deep Learning QA System

Authors: Barbara Rychalska, Dominika Basaj, Przemysław Biecek, and Anna Wróblewska.

Published in: CoRR 2018.

Keywords: N/A

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.03740

-------------x-------------x-------------x-------------

[1] Problem:

Recent progress in NLP focus on the adversarial problem which leads the systems to mistakenly change the output. Authors
investigate the importance of the verb in the QA system in this paper. They show that the main verb in questions has a very
low influence on the decisions. These observations help authors to analyze the mechanism of self-attention and values
contained in the hidden layers on RNN.

[2] Solution:

The QA system generally modifies the questions or contexts and shows that the small change in semantics may change the 
system decisions. On the other hand, in this paper, authors generate questions and negate the meaning which creates a 
heavy difference. Then they observe the system outputs. The overall process contains the following steps: (1) Measure the
impact of verb (PoS) in QA systems, (2) Swap the verb in question with their antonyms with WordNet, (3) Evaluate the system
outputs with original verb questions and swapping verb questions, (4) Check how many system output matches with minimal
differences in meaning, and (5) Analyze the mechanism of self-attention and values contained in the hidden layers on RNN.

[3] Evaluation:

Authors evaluate the approach on SQuAD dataset. The result shows that reversal verbs with antonyms does not change the 
decision in 90.5% cases and only in 9.5% case the reversal verb case disturbs the system output. Authors observe the 
results and find the problem that in most of the case a specific noun appears in a single sentence which represents a 
single context. This specifies the low importance of the main verb in the QA system and identifies the shortcomings of 
the  SQuAD training dataset. Authors suggest that including more sentences with repeating nouns and varying verbs will 
address this drawback.
